<h3>This directory contains the codes used to calculate the angles between pairs of <i>RCC</i></h3>
<p>The pairs of <i>RCC</i> used are included in the directories <a href="https://github.com/gdelrioifc/PPI-RCC2/tree/main/Parallelism/Interacting">Interacting</a> and <a href="https://github.com/gdelrioifc/PPI-RCC2/tree/main/Parallelism/NonInteracting">Non interacting</a>.</p>

<p>To compile the Java files (extension .java), plese type in your console:</p>
<p>javac CalculateCosine_V2.java</p>
<p>That will generate 2 extra files with extension .class. To execute it, type in your console:</p>
<p>java CalculateCosine_V2</p>
<p>That would print out in your console the instructions to run it.</p>
<p>Please note you have to have installed Java Run Environment (JRE v8 or lower) in your computer.</p>

<p>For the Python files (extension .py and .sh), those must be executed in the following order:</p>
<table border=1>
<th>Program name</th><th>Description</th>
<tr>
  <td>p0_dirGen0.sh</td>
  <td>This bash script creates directories and compiles the two java programs described above.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>p1_interacting.py</td>
  <td>This python script reads the <a href="https://github.com/gdelrioifc/PPI-RCC2/tree/main/Parallelism/Interacting">complex files</a> and writes out a list of proteins with at least 1 interaction. It calculates the average value for each one of the 26 components, its standard deviation and the sum of all 26 components for each vector in the list of printed proteins.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>p2_sampleGenerator.py</td>
  <td>This python script takes the list of proteins generated by p1_interacting.py and prints a given number of those proteins randomly, and such task is performed a specified number of times. At the same time calculates the sum and average values for each component for all the corresponding vectors for each protein. By default the variable 'interact_case' is set to False. If 'interact_case' is set to True, this program will print a list of known interactions, but with a set of randomly generated corresponding vectors. Such task requires to first running p3_generator with the 'interact_case' set to True.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>p3_generator.py</td>
  <td>This python script generates random vectors for each sample generated by p2_sampleGenerator.py 'interact_case' set to False. The random vectors are adjusted to the sum and average values. By default the variable 'interact_case' is set to False. If 'interact_case' is set to True, this program generate N samples but only for one set of sums and averages. This configuration will generate a set of random vectors corresponding to those with a known interaction, and should be used before p2_sampleGenerator.py with 'interact_case' set to True.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>p4_runAngles.py</td>
  <td>This python script calculates the angles between all the proteins pairs generated by either p2_sampleGenerator.py or p3_generator.py.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>p6_anglesInComplexes.py</td>
  <td>This python script calculates the angles between the <a href="https://github.com/gdelrioifc/PPI-RCC2/tree/main/Parallelism/Interacting">complex files</a> or the output from p2_sampleGenerator.py with variable 'interact_case' is set to True.</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p>Please note you need to have installed Python v3 on your computer.</p>
